Heyes Welcome back congratulations for smashing the previous step which was quite a big step getting
the next date and now we're going to move on to the next step which will be about getting game over
as I just got.
So first of all what does that mean and why do we have to do this and mostly Why is it part of the general
framework.
Well you know when you're training in a fight you're going to do that on a certain number of what we
call books.
For example in our case an epoch will be a five month period and we will actually train our AI on 1000
bucks a five month period.
But when the training happens each of these epochs.
Well it might happen that the AI is doing terribly like not at all accomplishing its goal.
And so in that case well what you can do is force the episode to be over so then you can start a new
episode and get a better start.
So a classic example that I always like to give if for example your training in the eye to drive a car
like a self-driving car.
Well imagine that's on point.
The car just smashed the wall.
Well of course that's going to be a game over.
It's going to be the end of the episode and you will want to start to drive again.
And so that's why in most of the environments we have this game over component which allows us to end
an episode as soon as our AI is far from its goal.
And so what is going to be the game over in our case.
In our specific case study well remember that we have these maximum temperature above which to sort
of fails to operate.
And also this minimum temperature below which the server fails to operate.
Well you get it if the service temperature goes either above the maximum temperature or below the minimum
temperature.
Well of course we're going to have game over because of course there will be far from it.
Go to regulate correctly the temperature of the server.
And so that's all that we need to do right now.
We only need to gather these two conditions in two separate if conditions checking if one of these two
situations happen.
And if either of them happens well we'll force the game to be over and we'll start again.
All right.
But remember that we have to force the game to be over only for the training.
No I talked about training airbags.
Well you know you want to restart the train again on the in the training.
However for the simulation there is no such thing as the game over and you will see inside each of our
two if conditions checking if we are below the minimum temperature or above the max temperature.
Well we'll check also if we are in training mode because if we are not in training mode we'll just ask
the AI to bring the surface temperature back into the optimal range.
Very simply.
So let's do this let's get whether the game is over for our specific history.
So as we just said we have to check the two possible situations where the game came over and the first
one is if the temperature of the air goes below the minimum temperature so I'm going to get this minimum
temperature of minus 20 degrees so that we can write the following condition if self that temperature
that is the surface temperature when we have the.
If that temperature goes below the minimum temperature that we can have well in that case what will
we do.
Remember we have to check first if we are in training mode.
So we'll add another condition checking if indeed we are in training mode.
And remember we have this Selda trained variable which is the mode and which is equal to one if we are
in training mode and 0 if we are in inference mode.
So right now I'm checking that other equals 1 million checking if we are in training mode.
And so if that's the case now we can force the game to be over.
And how can we do that.
Well remember that we also have this self that game over volleyball which is initialized to 0 meaning
the game is not over.
But right now since indeed we just went below the minimum temperature.
Well we're going to force the game to be over by sitting.
Game over.
Too true.
The game is over.
Or one.
All right.
And that's it.
Then you'll see in the training will implement something to say that if the game is over we'll have
to start again.
But that will be in the training implementation file.
All right.
Then we also have to take care of the situation where we are not in training.
That is if we are in conference mode which we can get by the LCA else meaning if still the temperature
of the flight goes below the minimum temperature but we are not in training mode.
Well what will we do.
Well we just said we're going to ask and force actually our AI to bring the temperature of the server
back to the closest balance of the optimal range.
And since right now well the temperature of the server when we have the AI is very low because it went
below the minimum temperature.
Well we're going to force our AI to bring the temperature of the server back to the lower bound of the
optimal range of temperature and that's why I'm taking.
Well Selda temperature again the temperature of the server when we have the AI and I'm going to bring
it back to well the closest belt of the optimal range of temperature which is the lower bound.
So I'm taking this I'm pasting that right here and I'm getting the lower bound and perfect.
But then let's be careful if the AI does this to bring back the temperature of the server to this lower
bound.
Well of course that implies that the AI spends some energy.
We must not forget that and therefore we must update as well.
Well the total energy spent by the AI in the situation where we have the AI and we have to incremental
it by Remember something to the difference between self that optimal temperature of zero that is the
lower bound and optimal temperature range minus Well the temperature of the ice was much lower than
this lower bout of optimal temperature range because indeed it was lower than the minimum temperature
of the server minus 20 degrees.
All right.
So this is the energy spent by the AI for bringing the temperature of the server back to that lower
bound up to more range and therefore that's why we update the total energy spent over the round you
know over the iterations.
Perfect So that's a first situation handled and then we're going to handle the other situation where
you know the temperature of the server when we have the it goes beyond above the maximum temperature.
All right so that's why right now below I'm adding an elf which this time will be.
Well let's get the maximum temperature.
It is one of our object variables self that max temperature.
And so I'm going to right now that if the temperature of the server when we have the light goes this
time beyond the maximum temperature the server can have.
Well in that case what will happen.
First we have to check that indeed we are in training mode.
So if the Modica rules one that is if we are in training mode.
Well again we have to force the game to be over by setting ourselves game over viable as one again.
Great.
And then same thing if we're actually not in training mode but in inference mode well saying we will
force our AI to bring the temperature of the server when we have the AI back into the closest bound
of the optimal range of temperature which this time is going to be the index.
One of that optimal range of temperature.
Right because we are above the maximum temperature so to close about is the upper bound.
And again by bringing that temperature back to the upper bound of the optimal range that implies or
spend some energy.
So we have to update the total energy spent by our AI and we have to increment it by of course this
time the inverse differenced that is the temperature of the server when we have our AI that just went
beyond the maximum temperature minus of course that upper bound of the optimal range of temperature.
And here we go.
We took care of the situation where the game came over with these two conditions.
Perfect.
And so here we go.
We are already ready to move on to the next step which is about Abdeen course.
So by score's I mean of course our ultimate goal that we're trying to reach which is to spend the least
energy possible compared to the total energy spent by this alternative system which is the surface cooling
system when we have no AI.
So the scores are nothing else than the total energy spent by the AI and it's all energy spent by the
alternative system and we'll compare it to energy in the end by computing the relative difference between
the two.
So in the end we'll get something similar to what Google did mine obtained.
You know perhaps we'll get that our AI saves 50 percent energy compared to these alternative service
cooling system.
We'll see that in the end that we'll be in of course unless valve testing.
Why.
For the simulation.
So let's move on to the next step in the next toil.
And until then enjoy AI.